June 1st.  Having taken our leaves of Sir W. Batten and my Lady, who are
gone this morning to keep their Whitsuntide, Sir W. Pen and I and Mr.
Gauden by water to Woolwich, and there went from ship to ship to give
order for and take notice of their forwardness to go forth, and then to
Deptford and did the like, having dined at Woolwich with Captain Poole at
the tavern there.  From Deptford we walked to Redriffe, calling at the
half-way house, and there come into a room where there was infinite of new
cakes placed that are made against Whitsuntide, and there we were very
merry.  By water home, and there did businesses of the office. Among
others got my Lord's imprest of L1000 and Mr. Creed's of L10,000 against
this voyage their bills signed.  Having wrote letters into the country and
read some things I went to bed.

2nd (Whitsunday).  The barber having done with me, I went to church, and
there heard a good sermon of Mr. Mills, fit for the day.  Then home to
dinner, and then to church again, and going home I found Greatorex (whom I
expected today at dinner) come to see me, and so he and I in my chamber
drinking of wine and eating of anchovies an hour or two, discoursing of
many things in mathematics, and among others he showed me how it comes to
pass the strength that levers have, and he showed me that what is got as
to matter of strength is lost by them as to matter of time.  It rained
very hard, as it hath done of late so much that we begin to doubt a
famine, and so he was forced to stay longer than I desired.  At night
after prayers to bed.

3rd.  To the Wardrobe, where discoursing with my Lord, he did instruct me
as to the business of the Wardrobe, in case, in his absence, Mr. Townsend
should die, and told me that he do intend to joyne me and Mr. Moore with
him as to the business, now he is going to sea, and spoke to me many other
things, as to one that he do put the greatest confidence in, of which I am
proud.  Here I had a good occasion to tell him (what I have had long in my
mind) that, since it has pleased God to bless me with something, I am
desirous to lay out something for my father, and so have pitched upon Mr.
Young's place in the Wardrobe, which I desired he would give order in his
absence, if the place should fall that I might have the refusal.  Which my
Lord did freely promise me, at which I was very glad, he saying that he
would do that at the least.  So I saw my Lord into the barge going to
Whitehall, and I and Mr. Creed home to my house, whither my father and my
cozen Scott came to dine with me, and so we dined together very well, and
before we had done in comes my father Bowyer and my mother and four
daughters, and a young gentleman and his sister, their friends, and there
staid all the afternoon, which cost me great store of wine, and were very
merry.  By and by I am called to the office, and there staid a little.  So
home again, and took Mr. Creed and left them, and so he and I to the
Towre, to speak for some ammunition for ships for my Lord; and so he and
I, with much pleasure, walked quite round the Towre, which I never did
before.  So home, and after a walk with my wife upon the leads, I and she
went to bed.  This morning I and Dr. Peirce went over to the Beare at the
Bridge foot, thinking to have met my Lord Hinchinbroke and his brother
setting forth for France; but they being not come we went over to the
Wardrobe, and there found that my Lord Abbot Montagu being not at Paris,
my Lord hath a mind to have them stay a little longer before they go.

4th.  The Comptroller came this morning to get me to go see a house or two
near our office, which he would take for himself or Mr. Turner, and then
he would have me have Mr. Turner's lodgings and himself mine and Mr.
Davis's.  But the houses did not like us, and so that design at present is
stopped.  Then he and I by water to the bridge, and then walked over the
Bank-side till we came to the Temple, and so I went over and to my
father's, where I met with my cozen J. Holcroft, and took him and my
father and my brother Tom to the Bear tavern and gave them wine, my cozen
being to go into the country again to-morrow.  From thence to my Lord
Crew's to dinner with him, and had very good discourse about having of
young noblemen and gentlemen to think of going to sea, as being as
honourable service as the land war.  And among other things he told us
how, in Queen Elizabeth's time, one young nobleman would wait with a
trencher at the back of another till he came to age himself.  And
witnessed in my young Lord of Kent, that then was, who waited upon my Lord
Bedford at table, when a letter came to my Lord Bedford that the Earldom
of Kent was fallen to his servant, the young Lord; and so he rose from
table, and made him sit down in his place, and took a lower for himself,
for so he was by place to sit.  From thence to the Theatre and saw "Harry
the 4th," a good play.  That done I went over the water and walked over
the fields to Southwark, and so home and to my lute.  At night to bed.

5th.  This morning did give my wife L4 to lay out upon lace and other
things for herself.  I to Wardrobe and so to Whitehall and Westminster,
where I dined with my Lord and Ned Dickering alone at his lodgings. After
dinner to the office, where we sat and did business, and Sir W. Pen and I
went home with Sir R. Slingsby to bowls in his ally, and there had good
sport, and afterwards went in and drank and talked.  So home Sir William
and I, and it being very hot weather I took my flageolette and played upon
the leads in the garden, where Sir W. Pen came out in his shirt into his
leads, and there we staid talking and singing, and drinking great drafts
of claret, and eating botargo

     ["Botarga.  The roe of the mullet pressed flat and dried; that of
     commerce, however, is from the tunny, a large fish of passage which
     is common in the Mediterranean.  The best kind comes from Tunis."
     --Smyth's Sailor's Word-Book.  Botargo was chiefly used to promote
     drinking by causing thirst, and Rabelais makes Gargantua eat it.]

and bread and butter till 12 at night, it being moonshine; and so to bed,
very near fuddled.

6th.  My head hath aked all night, and all this morning, with my last
night's debauch.  Called up this morning by Lieutenant Lambert, who is now
made Captain of the Norwich, and he and I went down by water to Greenwich,
in our way observing and discoursing upon the things of a ship, he telling
me all I asked him, which was of good use to me.  There we went and eat
and drank and heard musique at the Globe, and saw the simple motion that
is there of a woman with a rod in her hand keeping time to the musique
while it plays, which is simple, methinks.  Back again by water, calling
at Captain Lambert's house, which is very handsome and neat, and a fine
prospect at top.  So to the office, where we sat a little, and then the
Captain and I again to Bridewell to Mr. Holland's, where his wife also, a
plain dowdy, and his mother was.  Here I paid Mrs. Holland the money due
from me to her husband.  Here came two young gentlewomen to see Mr.
Holland, and one of them could play pretty well upon the viallin, but,
good God! how these ignorant people did cry her up for it!  We were very
merry.  I staid and supped there, and so home and to bed.  The weather
very hot, this night I left off my wastecoat.

7th.  To my Lord's at Whitehall, but not finding him I went to the
Wardrobe and there dined with my Lady, and was very kindly treated by her.
After dinner to the office, and there till late at night.  So home, and to
Sir William Batten's, who is come this day from Chatham with my Lady, who
is and has been much troubled with the toothache.  Here I staid till late,
and so home and to bed.

8th.  To Whitehall to my Lord, who did tell me that he would have me go to
Mr. Townsend, whom he had ordered to discover to me the whole mystery of
the Wardrobe, and none else but me, and that he will make me deputy with
him for fear that he should die in my Lord's absence, of which I was glad.
Then to the Cook's with Mr. Shepley and Mr. Creed, and dined together, and
then I went to the Theatre and there saw Bartholomew Faire, the first time
it was acted now a-days.  It is a most admirable play and well acted, but
too much prophane and abusive.  From thence, meeting Mr. Creed at the
door, he and I went to the tobacco shop under Temple Bar gate, and there
went up to the top of the house and there sat drinking Lambeth ale a good
while.  Then away home, and in my way called upon Mr. Rawlinson (my uncle
Wight being out of town), for his advice to answer a letter of my uncle
Robert, wherein he do offer me a purchase to lay some money upon, that
joynes upon some of his own lands, and plainly telling me that the reason
of his advice is the convenience that it will give me as to his estate, of
which I am exceeding glad, and am advised to give up wholly the disposal
of my money to him, let him do what he will with it, which I shall do.  So
home and to bed.

9th (Lord's day).  This day my wife put on her black silk gown, which is
now laced all over with black gimp lace, as the fashion is, in which she
is very pretty.  She and I walked to my Lady's at the Wardrobe, and there
dined and was exceeding much made of.  After dinner I left my wife there,
and I walked to Whitehall, and then went to Mr. Pierce's and sat with his
wife a good while (who continues very pretty) till he came, and then he
and I, and Mr. Symons (dancing master), that goes to sea with my Lord, to
the Swan tavern, and there drank, and so again to White Hall, and there
met with Dean Fuller, and walked a great while with him; among other
things discoursed of the liberty the Bishop (by name the of Galloway)
takes to admit into orders any body that will; among others, Roundtree, a
simple mechanique that was a person [parson ?] formerly in the fleet. He
told me he would complain of it.  By and by we went and got a sculler, and
landing him at Worcester House, I and W. Howe, who came to us at
Whitehall, went to the Wardrobe, where I met with Mr. Townsend, who is
very willing he says to communicate anything for my Lord's advantage to me
as to his business.  I went up to Jane Shore's towre, and there W. Howe
and I sang, and so took my wife and walked home, and so to bed. After I
came home a messenger came from my Lord to bid me come to him tomorrow
morning.
